and YouTube and welcome to my top 10
hypertrophy list as you can tell I have
a pretty decent physique I'm fairly big
so I think I have some good things to
share with you guys so I did a mix
between movements that stood the test of
time and the ones that I started doing
recently but that I wish I could go back
in time and start doing earlier because
they truly gave me a ton of gains now of
course this is my own personal list it's
not going to mean that these lips are
the best for everyone but I do think
that for hypertrophy they are top tier
in a sense it's like my tier list that
you can find in the description they
might actually give you a ton of results
as well
in terms of the way the list is
structured it's quite simple there are
10 lives in there and are ranked in
order of importance so when I look at my
physique today I look at my gains I
think to myself okay which one created
this which one if I took it away from
this list would result in me looking
worse so in a sense as bodomy mindset
himself if I was stuck on an island with
a gun to my head and I was told okay you
can only do 10 movements these are the
10 movements that I would do at my
number 10 I have french press what a
surprise that a French man would have
the French press in his list I believe
that it is a great movement for the long
head of the tricep uh portion of the arm
that I neglected for years and years and
it is the inclusion of The French Press
into my program that made me love
training this body part to me most of my
long head gains which is underneath the
arm came from The French Press and I
love to do them with a dumb dog now the
issue with the dumbbell is that you run
the risk of developing tendonitis which
I've had and when that happens you're
stuck you can't progress anymore because
you cannot spam the movement and the
movement that is not spammable will not
get too much gains but I have found ways
around it so for example if you have a
cable Stack The French Press with the
cable stack is s tier it is the best way
to do French Press you could also if you
wanted just shift your torso angle so as
to do the French press behind the head
like this with the shift I find also
that it makes it much more comfortable
it's a very simple barbaric movement but
if you have never tried it I encourage
you to do that now for my number nine I
have remaining deadlift they were never
a priority and I regret it because I
think it was a big mistake I think that
I really short-changed my gains
especially in the Armstrong Department
by focusing so much on deadlifts there
is a reason why many people nowadays say
that the deadlift is worthless or
hypertrophy I disagree with them but I
do include that for bodybuilding if you
do 80 of your volume with deadlifts and
20 with the Romanian deadlifts we are
not doing things properly if your goal
is hypertrophy but you still want to do
your deadlifts because the problem that
you will run into with your RDR is that
once you store the portion that plateaus
is the positive because the negative is
never the limiting factor of the lift so
the easiest way to make sure that this
never happens is also to do deadlifts on
the side at this point I do both and I
find that this is the best way to
progress on the pattern number eight
might be a surprise for some of you guys
because as you know I was the no
shoulder guy for a long time but now I
try to grow my shoulders and the lift
that I use for that is the overhead
press that is at number eight I think
that if you want bigger shoulders and
you're not doing vertical pressing you
are short-changing yourself you really
should be doing it lateral raises are
good addition but done not enough so to
me the vitamins is why they made their
way into that list because any and every
shoulder gains I've made in the past
three to four months I've made
thoroughly by spamming overhead press as
much as possible so this is my method
and this is why I think that you should
do them as well now what I will tell you
for this is to find the style that you
like when I do an override press my grip
is here it's within the shoulders
because that's what's comfortable same
for you find the grip that you like the
most it could be a snap grip it could be
behind the head it could be with
dumbbells it could be a neutral grip I
don't care as long as your arm does this
you're good then for number seven is a
movement that is almost the one I've
been doing the longest not quite and it
is dumbbell rules I absolutely love
dumbbell rules so I would just bend over
on top of two Dundas and roll the two
dumbbells at once doing something like
this and it grew my back and not just my
back it also grew my posterior chain
because guess what this is the only
exercise I did for posterior chain the
only one and when I started deadlifting
I think it was two years afterwards or
two years of doing rules like this the
first time I deadlifted I picked up 275
for five with good form it wasn't really
my first time deadlifting all of these
rules I was doing also grew my
armstrings my glutes and my lower back
now that I'm more into bodybuilding and
I want a more focused approached I do
them with only one arm by posting myself
I made a video about that it will be in
the pin comment if you know how to do
your dumbbell rules properly it is an
amazing movement because you can thaw
every fiber of your upper back
stretching and this is one of these
these lifts were when I see people tell
me that they don't like dumbbell rules
my answer is you're not doing dumbbell
rules properly or you haven't found your
style yet there are so many ways to do
them that at this point I I think that
everyone can find out dumbbell row now
for number six it's a no-brainer there
had to be included at some point or the
other if you're not doing squats or at
least a heavy knee flexion which is at
the end of the day a squat you're not
going to get big legs or at least not as
big as they could be meaning that I
don't buy into the idea that you could
get massive legs from lunges and from
knee extensions I'm not a purist I'm not
saying do high bar or die you can do low
bar you can do SSB you can do hack
squats you can do belt squats I do not
care but please do your squats for me my
legs are massive
admittedly not defined at all not just
massive hams but all of that mess I got
I got from squats I never did a leg
extension I never did all of these crazy
things until I had already 26 to 27
inches quads my legs already that big
when I started implementing other
methods and I encourage you to also have
at least one type of squad in your list
now for number five we start to get into
my favorite movements of all time that I
do all the time and I've done for pretty
much forever because I'm a troll bro it
should not be a surprise I am absolutely
obsessed with biceps to this day if you
look at my physique what stands out the
most is my biceps and that's for a
reason if it were to be that more and
more people started treating curves as
seriously for example as they treat dark
compounds you would see more and more
people with massive arms actually find
your style of fuel that you like and you
will find that it will it will give you
tremendous results as long as you do
them properly of course now for number
four is a lift that shouldn't really be
on the list because I only started doing
them three years ago but in three years
it made such a difference in my physique
and it impressed me so much with the
gains I got that if I'm not doing polar
version or doing something wrong and I
firmly believe that because when done
properly they will modify the way your
body looks which is the point of
bodybuilding of course every lift does
that but there is something almost
magical about pullovers
it's ribcage expansion until you
experience it you don't understand it so
I recommend that everyone try them at
least once program them in your in your
in your routine do them heavy to them
with light weight them with nucleus
overload if I could go back in time and
force my younger self to do a lift it
would be pullovers because I firmly
believe that if I started doing
pullovers the first day I got dumbbells
my body would not look the way it looks
now my physique would be on another
level but that is not true for number
three because number three is actually
the first lift that I ever started doing
and that is sit-ups I was obsessed with
sit-ups like many young men I wanted a
six-pack so every night I remember in my
bedroom I would put the radio on and I
would put my feet underneath the the
thing like this the the the thing that
helped the radio I can't speak properly
tonight for some reason and I would just
Spam them and this is the reason why I
still have a six-pack to this day I
again it's an approach that is
completely idiotic but it worked and to
me if you are not doing a form or
another of isolation for your abs you
are showcasing another type of stupidity
but one that you will actually regret
because our isolation is free guys
please do it right I I've seen many of
these lists from many people around the
community and I was sudden to not see
more app isolation so I would like us to
go back to a time where bodybuilders
were actually obsessed with abs the
shredded browsers don't have the
Monopoly on app development we can take
that back as well for number two I have
Pull-Ups so you'll see that number two
number three number one are all in the
same vein these are movements that I've
done forever and I think the world the
most instrumental in developing my
physique pull-ups are still the king of
upper back builders in my opinion if you
want bigger lights to your pull-ups if
you want a better defined upper back
area to your pull-ups if you cannot
progress anymore because you cannot get
more reps start doing them weighted do
them with with towels do them with a
different grip there are so many ways to
do pull-ups that you will always find a
method or another to squeeze more gains
out of them my back before I started
doing pull ups and after I started doing
pull-ups is night and day I used to have
a fridge back where my back was like
this and when I started doing pull-ups
finally and I was out of my power
lifting quote-unquote phase suddenly I
started seeing some some lat development
on upper back development so this is
also really that I think everyone should
be doing and to me if you're a
bodybuilder and you do a style of pull
up Rose dumbbell rows and pullovers
you're good you got to open back games
covered throw a hip hinge into the mix
like an RTL and you're going to have a
massive pit bull back and then we move
on to the number one on this list
a lift that is not even really a lift
but to me when I thought back and I I
questioned myself and I looked at my
body and I was like all right look at
what you look like which lift if you
took it away would make all of this melt
and the answer was obvious to me
push-ups push-ups made the single
biggest difference in my physique I did
hundreds of them every single day with
no rest day and the big mistake and
regret that I have with push-ups is that
I turned my back on them because at some
point I discovered bench press and I was
like well
so long push-ups I found a better
variation you suck now and I was
absolutely wrong push-ups are not just
for novices push-ups are for everyone as
long as you find variations that
actually put the intensity up recently I
rediscovered ring push-ups on an
elevation that are done for shoulder
development and upper chest development
and I fell in love again because these
challenged me like a [ __ ] they
are really hard and I feel them in my
chest a ton there is a reason why if you
follow my novice program I have you do
push-ups more often than I have YouTube
bench because to me this is the type of
movement that is instrumental people
talk about building a base building a
base and usually what they mean is get a
four plate deadlift that's not a base to
me that's [ __ ] but bass to me is
getting proficient at push-ups getting
proficient at pull-ups that's a solid
base if you get these two in all those
then you can move on to other movements
but never ever turn your back on them
even if you are Advanced so if you look
at the top three it might be surprising
again because these are all movements
you can do
equipment that in route anyone can do
and that is the Crux of it regardless of
your level in bodybuilding the biggest
mistake you can make is turning your
back on the basics I see many
bodybuilders do that and are making a
mistake if you got most of your gains
from something never stop doing that
thing you can refine your approach and
add other things on top of it but never
ever shun them because again you will
regret it
if you look at the movements I would
like you to also not focus necessarily
on the variation I presented but rather
on the patterns every lift on this list
is a classic bodybuilding pattern that
in my opinion should be included in
every single program because if you look
at any of them if you take them out
there's a body part that is being
neglected take out the French Press no
longer the tricep development take out
the overhead press no shoulders the
squats no legs the curls no biceps all
of these are necessary none of them are
negotiable people talk about the big
three the big five [ __ ] all of that the
bare minimum for a bodybuilding program
is a Big Ten it doesn't have to be these
movements but it has to be movements
that Target the nozzles that that list
covers and that is going to conclude
this video now bodomy Mentor us to
actually select other people or the
lifters that we would like to hear from
I'm going to take things a little bit
differently today I would like to hear
from my fellow Frenchmen people that
have great physiques like Airsoft erzo I
want to hear from you I want to hear
from Lucas
give me your list as well I'm interested
in the comments so I can make fun of
some of you that neglect forearms or abs
for example and that is going to be it I
have an excellent end of your night and
I'll see you very soon
